[Music]
we talk about inventions and innovation
and so the best things out there are the
internet iPads or smartphones or perhaps
more simply trains planes and
automobiles which one is the most
important the best or the greatest which
one has had the most impact on society
today the debate would probably be in
favor of computer technology but is it
well some would say nope not really
it's farming where would we be if we
didn't have it give up we would still be
hunting and gathering with little time
to invent anything let alone the
Internet that's right
farming is the seed of civilization not
quite literally but without early man's
discovery of using seeds to grow grain
we wouldn't have much of anything we
have today growing your own food changed
everything
sure hunting and gathering worked just
fine for tens of thousands of years but
you couldn't do much else no time but
when hunters and gatherers started
planting seeds they began to farm with
farming came animals and with animals
came settling down and staying in one
location so how does this have anything
to do with invention and innovation
everything anyone who's ever farmed even
if it's planting a half-dozen
tomato plants in your backyard knows
that you usually harvest way more than
you could possibly eat a surplus farming
yielded plenty of food with enough to
store trade and eat in other words not
everyone needed to be farmers
therefore this allowed other people non
farmers to do other things such as make
tools crafts pottery and build homes
farming and food surpluses led to the
division of labor this is still
thousands of years ago
so life wasn't easy but with so many
people contributing to the community
small villages began to develop as the
population of villages expanded so did
the needs of the people things got
complicated but civilization is just
that advanced complex societies and
without farming there would not exist
villages increased in size eventually
becoming the first cities cities are
just one of the basic features of a
civilization the others include central
government system of writing organized
religion art and architecture urban
planning of roads bridges and Public
Works social classes and different jobs
developing expertise in various types of
occupations allowed for innovative ways
of doing things
producing new products or making
advancements in technology as
civilizations became more complex new
ways of doing things were needed some
were out of necessity
others because people had ideas the
sharing of ideas and technology led to
the growth of things we readily use
today like the internet so without
farming we'd still be hunting and
gathering no video no computers and
certainly no World Wide Web
you